well hello
folks so obviously this is the very
first video here it's a review and it's
more or
less an exercise on showing my son and
all of you that wish to follow along in
his journey how to annotate your chart
okay and how to log individual segments
of price action uh in full disclosure
obviously there's times in the live
streams that I'm doing on my own channel
I'm live streaming and outlining price
action I'll prompt you periodically to
screenshot and when you do that if
you're watching it live you should be
doing it with your own charts not mine
uh for the fol that don't have the
ability to watch it live when it's
happening uh you can cheat I'd rather
you didn't do it this way but uh you can
use my charts to get yourself acclimated
and caught up but eventually you want to
be dealing with your own charts okay so
to give my son Caleb an idea on what
that looks like how to log specific
charts for a session so one day one
session and so forth what should he have
in his chart what is he focusing on
things that are going to grow his
understanding and your understanding as
a student that may be following along
going through the same learning curve as
Caleb this will give you some idea on
how to do
that my suggestion would be to uh
use either a
PowerPoint or use uh notation there's a
lot of different uh mediums you can use
to capture and save your screenshots for
an individual day that way you can
annotate any observation and I'll walk
you through you know what that might be
like I didn't want to annotate the chart
here anymore than it's already
done but I'll prompt you on what you
could be observing things that you want
to record and these are pertinent for
each individual session but it's also
growing over time building your
understanding of price action so this is
going to be like a daily meditation
you're going to go through it it's a
routine I promise you it will feel like
it isn't going to do anything for you in
the very very early stages of doing it
it's going to feel monotonous it's going
to feel like it's a waste of time but I
promise you will start to see the things
in price action because you're doing
this very thing Caleb all the things I'm
highlighting real time and calling a
special attention to before it forms and
how it should behave I had to do this
very thing to get comfortable
anticipating it expecting it and then
therefore being able to repeat it you
know day by day week by week so
obviously watched what I did on Friday
where I did very little talking I talked
about only what I was observing in price
action I didn't rant I didn't go through
any kind of uh you rabbit Trails or
anything like that I answered a few
questions briefly for folks that had
left uh
in my opinion questions that were worth
responding to not that everybody's
question isn't worth responding but
where we are in the mentorship for 2024
on YouTube this for free
the the level of questions that are
coming in most of them are asking
questions that are not gerine to what
we're doing they're asking about crypto
or something like that but uh I want you
to rewatch that live stream okay uh
you'll hear me talking about things I'll
mention in here as well but I don't want
you to take my word for it because if
you didn't watch the video or the live
stream live or you didn't watch the
recording of it you're missing out on
some really foundation work for
determining when to sit still when to
anticipate and price run what side of
the marketplace should you be focusing
on so the way I got to that ability and
having that skill set is I did lots of
this stuff right here screenshots
logging charts and then filling in the
areas that I leave in my chart open like
this and like this in this area over
here and I type out information that's
useful to me and I'm going to suggest
some of those things as we go through
but I didn't want to fill the chart up
because I know some of you are just
going to take that screenshot it and be
done with it I want you to go back and
watch the live stream from
Friday and then you'll see that there
are much more
significant leaps in your ability to see
what's going on because you're doing
this very exercise not just once in a
while not when it's a good technical day
but you want to do it every single day
so kale this is what you're going be
doing uh going forward and obviously
your charting and your journaling will
get a whole lot better I expect it to be
neat and if not I'll be grilling you
about that
but if we look at the daily chart here I
hand corner this is the
NASDAQ okay you can see that we
had this volume IM
balance here and I'm going to C to you
to go back and listen to August
13th 2024's live stream at the end of
that live stream I covered when we were
down here I said that we were going to
go
up by side here we have a small portion
of this Cy still we have this big
bearish order
block the main threshold which is being
highlighted here with that dashed red
line that's what it stands for bearish
order block mean threshold so half of an
order block is mean threshold and then I
said we had the rejection block then we
have the wick here and prior to that we
have this volume in balance as well
and eventually you if we can get through
all this price action in here then we
can contend with something up here but
right now that's where my focus was and
you can hear
that in August 13
2024's live stream towards the end of
the recording so I gave you all the
pertinent higher time frame daily PD
arrays to look for when we were down
here we were looking for higher prices
we did not look for lower prices we've
been maintaining expectations moving
higher so I want you to take a look at
how the
low of this candle which is the
CBI High of July 23rd 2024 here and then
because we have a volume imbalance you
want to have both reference points there
but because we have to work when price
was down here we have to work one level
at a time so this is a level we have to
be aware of then the next one is the
mean threshold the bearish order block
then we have the high of the volume in
Balance inside of the civy which is
daily civy volume imbalance high on July
23rd 2024 you'll be able to see that
tighted out a little bit clear because
it's all scrunched up for me to show the
chart like this but this big down close
candle is a sells side balance buy side
and efficiency which is the
sibi on July 24th
2024 so we were working all through that
price action and then we hammered into
the rejection block we were looking for
a run potentially up into this Wix
consequent encouragement and it just
fell short of that that which was
indicative of unlying weakness and we
saw that big Smash down on Thursday and
then today we worked into the main
threshold of that bearish order block
which is the halfway point and we were
looking for indications that we might
want to reject that now on Friday we had
Fed chair pal speaking at 10 o'clock so
have that in mind so everything that I
just mentioned here all the San points
what levels all that you want to have
those annotations typed out about what
was useful on each day how it traded to
it what was the highest high and lowest
low and how it worked with these levels
that we outlined in advance on the 13th
of August and obviously last week we did
a clinic on how to use this information
intraday real
time all right so zooming in a little
bit okay Caleb you're going to do the
same thing whenever there's a an area of
concern or where you're focusing your
attention you want to have a chart that
shows the general proximity where those
things are meaning the volume of balance
and volume IM balance again for the
folks that don't know what that is it's
any candle that has a body that doesn't
touch or overlap the previous candle so
you're looking at
two candles that would be side by side
if there's ever a separation between
their
bodies but they don't connect at all or
overlap the difference between the pre
candle's body open or
close same thing here there is no
special distinction whether the candle's
up or down you're just focusing on the
separation between the the two candles
initially okay so that is a volume IM
balance the wick May
travel and it may open up above the
previous candle's low that does not
negate this being a volume of balance
volume of balances the bodies have to
touch minimum if there's one tick
that's still a volume in Balance okay so
you want to be aware of that so let's
continue on now what I'm measuring here
is the difference between the volume of
balance high on the daily chart again we
haven't gone down any lower time frames
yet upper left hand corner you see that
so the high of the volume of bounds
which is that candle's close and this
candle's opening we're measuring that to
get a consequent encroachment level
which is
19,943 carry that through you can
see I think it's respecting that on the
high on
Friday I believe so so August 23rd 2024
you watched me outline my reluctance in
wanting to go long and then I outlined
the short trading down into low of day
and we'll walk you through that as we go
but you want to have that uh level on
your chart as well
but I'm going to remind you that if we
are moving lower and we expect weakness
and we have a higher time frame PD array
like this we've already worked one
candle two candle three
candle
higher than the volume of balance but
now we went below the volume of balance
so the best form of showing respect of
algorithm price delivery is that it
should not trade into the upper half of
that volume balance okay so that right
there indicates that while it could go
against my expectations while I was live
streaming it could very easily have
traded above and went beyond where I
thought it should go which it should not
go on the upper half and that volume
imbalance upper half or the premium side
of it is shaded here in pink indicating
that the new day opening gap on
August 22nd
2024 and the daily civy volume and
Bounds high should not be traded to
because we've already went through it
one two three times and we broke through
so this candle
here this up close candle here on the
daily chart becomes a bearish order
block so we can use this higher time
frame daily chart bearish order block to
trade inside the range on a intraday
basis on Friday expecting that we should
not get into that upper half of that
volume balance because we left it
decisively see that so now we're going
to drop in lower time frames again note
all the levels here and what they're
indicating and we'll see all those same
things when we get into the lower time
[Music]
frames before we do we have the order
block
itself and that midpoint here
is mean threshold that's what's being
shown here okay so I'm reminding you
that that's that level and what that is
so it's
75 all right dropping all the way down
into a li minute
chart again I'm taking the liberty of
assuming that you have watched Friday
August 23rd 2024's live stream so all
the details that I was outlining there
in addition to this this is kind of the
Advanced perspective of what I was
utilizing I also referred to this in the
live stream too so on the one minute
chart you'll see me reference this area
I'll say that this is a balanced price
range so it's going to take a real move
to get up into August 22nd
2024 level the daily Cy volume and
balance High wasn't even factored
because this was the next PD array that
would be
above that high but part of the this
Balan price
range so we're going to look at this
segment of price action and I mentioned
that this was a Balan price range and
what does that mean well we have a small
little sell sign and balance buyid
efficiency between this candle's low
this candle's high so Caleb you would
have that noted and the market does in
fact trade up into it we Wick just a
little bit above it that's fine it
breaks lower trades to this low comes
right back up and overlaps over all of
the price run from that that propulsion
block this is a propulsion block because
we have a bearish order block changing
the state of delivery is here we cross
over it there so any rally back up we
have up closed candle the up closed
candle is another order block but it's
kind of like an accelerator it it really
kind like pushes price the expected to
go lower and the market breaks lower
once more we trade back up into
propulsion block
sells off one more goes to a lower low
than that low so we have this low then
it retraces all the way back up into the
repulsion
block and then finally gives up The
Ghost and breaks lower and leaves the
range defined by that low and that high
so what makes this a balanced price
range we trade
down up down up so we have worked all of
this price action in here back and forth
It's offered efficient delivery higher
and lower and then once it leaves it on
that candle once it leaves it it becomes
a balanced price
range so it it's not a matter of just go
up down and leave it's got to go up down
back and forth delivering
up buy side delivering down sell side
all of this back and forth price action
it's a clear and obvious trading range
so it's balanced it's going to take a
very significant price run to get above
this high and above this high so
watching the new day open gap on August
22nd during that live stream you'll hear
me say you if it if it wants to
continuously power through then the next
thing would be here but I tell you very
specifically I am not interested in
going long because of the factors over
here and what I've outlined on the daily
chart so this is a balanc price range
balance price ranges are very difficult
to get through buy side or stops Above
This High here would be called high
resistance liquidity meaning that it's
going to take a lot of movement
something very
significant in this case manual
intervention where the algorithm is
overridden by a manual intervention so
they repic aggressively there because
they just want to mess with everything
that's in the marketplace and that can
sometimes happen just look at FC let's
look at payroll look at CPI PPI those
types of events you always want to trade
after those news drivers because you
don't know what they're going to do at
the time of delivery at those high
impact or Med impact news
[Music]
drivers so whenever you have a balc
price range you want to extend that
throughout the day I did not have that
on the chart but I have these
levels on a notepad so I'm watching it
and you can see how quickly there the
chart gets very very busy
you while you're learning it it may be
beneficial for you to have this on your
chart which is what I'm teaching my son
to do okay so just know that we're
looking for these things to have an
effect on our perspective on price
action seeing what price may do around
them not that you should expect to know
what to do with them right now Caleb
what you're doing is you're you're
collecting information so that way
you'll start having a journal of price
action you can go back and look and the
things you're going to learn by going
forward
with me teaching you you'll be able to
go back and see these setups were there
too but it's not important for you to
see them right now but you do have to
have the mechanics of seeing what price
action looks like what is balanced
what's inefficient inefficient is this
run
here okay so it leaves it energetically
below that low that is displacement it's
leaving aggressively so if it comes back
up to the low of this area here up into
this Candlestick here
that means we have what we have a return
back to a bounce price range and it
should have really hard uh the difficult
time if you will to get through it to
get to this PD so this is kind of like
guarded by the algorithm it's not likely
to see it trade to it but if it does
it's indicative of okay then there's
something else at play there's manual
intervention I won't Chase it going long
I'll just cut the the interest in the
day and be done
[Music]
all right so with that information we're
going to drag it out to the 9:30 opening
bell which is right here on that candle
and that shaded area here is the top of
that level right here that's the high
and the low that shaded area that is
that balance price range on the one
minute chart again if you're just
looking at this lecture here and looking
at how it's annotated and not watching
that live stream it's going to be
completely alien to you you will not be
able to pick up the subtle nuances
that's being shown here it'll go right
over your head so it's a combination of
watching this and going back and
watching that live stream again Caleb
from Friday August 23rd 2024 it's not
that long it's like an hour and 15
minutes or so it's not that big of a
deal so we have the opening bell first
tick here that is the beginning of the
opening range opening range goes to 10
o'clock that's essentially right here
and it started going
higher if you notice this is your very
first fair value Gap inside of 930 to 10
during the live stream this is why I
have to remind you to go back and look
at it when I toggle between electronic
trading hours is what's being shown here
lower right hand corner I toggle to
regular trading hours which you'll see
in a
moment this fair value Gap does not
appear because you're looking at regular
trading hours the first tick is here so
you're not even going to see any of this
here so because we have a minimum
expectation of
931 and then after we don't want to use
any fair value gaps that start at 930 to
931 to
932 because if you if you toggle back
and forth between regular trading hours
by clicking this right hand corner of
your trading view where it says
electronic trading if you change that to
session regular trading hours the very
first 930 fair value Gap if there is one
won't won't exist
so you want to disregard that so this is
the one and go back and listen to the
live stream okay because I actually make
a very special notation about that so
this is the one you want to have and you
want to project that out and look at the
observation here and here then rallies
at 10 o00 so we have the
initial opening range of 30 minutes
trading from
here to here so what do we have high
high low low and what I was asking is I
want to see does price want to go down
upset this first and then if they would
have done that I would have been looking
for it to trade here and treat that as
an inversion fair value Gap but because
we had both 930 High relative equal high
this low and this low both being
what relatively equal so what did I
teach you going into the 2024 mentorship
Caleb if we have both and they're
obvious both buy side clean equal highs
sell side clean equal lows wait for the
first one to be taken so which one was
taken the buy side so this is all fake
this is all a fake run and how far can
it go up I'm going to sit still no
problem but then I watched it drop down
if it would have started to accumulate
in here where between this candle's low
this candle's High midpoint of that is
consequent approaching of this buyid Bal
cellid efficiency if it would have went
down what do I mean by I don't want to
see it accumulate I don't want to go
down here stop build a candle build
another candle build another C I don't
want to see that I want to see it do
this drop down reverse out of that and
pump up even more here's a high the high
goes right to the Daily CBI sell sign
and balance buy sign efficiency from
July 23rd from the daily chart hits it
it sweeps above the new day opening Gap
that's what you want to see it drops
back down does it accumulate at the
midpoint of that 5 B cell sign
efficiency no it doesn't it runs makes a
higher high what's it trading to July
22nd
2024's bearish order block on The Daily
charts mean
threshold and what does it leave
relative equal highs it drops once more
we don't want to see it accumulate in
the midpoint of this B balance cell sign
efficiency does it accumulate no creates
a higher low so we're building what cell
side what's below here sell side it has
not been traded to yet so we have the
market rally up and then we create this
little Gap here i' annotate that and
then we rally above treat it as support
and now what's it going to reach for
right in here is buy side and I don't
want to see it trade up to the new day
opening gap of August 22nd I want to see
it just bump above that relative equal
high so as it runs up turtle
soup breaks back down crosses over the
bearish order block I told you if it's
good it should Rally from here and hit
that if it's really really bullish it
should run up there now to the Casual
viewer or someone that doesn't really
want to learn from me and there's
looking for some kind of saying I gotcha
see you thought he was going to go long
here and look at failed no no no no go
back and watch the live stream I don't
want to go long in this
listen the failure right here once it
did this I not I said in the live stream
I said did you notice that it failed
there it couldn't reach the new day
opening Gap that is indicative of
weakness once this candle here swept
down below that opening price so that
candle over here that's the that's the
change in the state of delivery so every
cross above that price action he point
right there the opening price that's a
short anywhere in there is a short
between that and the mean threshold of
the July 22nd 2024 that is a
short this is the Turtle suit this is
the validation of a bear order block and
anywhere in between that price point and
there afterwards is an opportunity to
add pyramid build build build and then
the market breaks down it crosses over
the August 20th 2024's new day opening
Gap next candle rally up what are we
touching daily Cy high from July 23rd
2024 bam hits it breaks
lower I was talking about this as it
happening I said I want to see it trade
below this Gap here I want to see it Go
below it and then come back in use the
lower half of it do not trade above the
upper half we want to leave this portion
open the market drops down to the next
new day opening Gap and and I mentioned
it could go back up there but if it does
go up there it needs to reject it
aggressively it needs to move away
sharply just like that and it needs to
keep the upper half open unfilled and
that's exactly what we saw on Friday and
the market starts to drop precipitously
aiming for what relative equal lows
that's initial or minor cell side now
Caleb you can do that here because this
low is lower than that one so these are
relative equal
lows but
if you're not going to annotate that you
absolutely have to make reference to
these and these because that is your
opening range cell side the that has not
been tagged or engaged all of this is
Judah swing all during 10 o'cl when pal
starts speaking so this is all manual
intervention this is the hand if you
will knocking out individuals that were
already short here I'm not going long go
back and watch the live stream they run
it up no problem I said if it keeps
going up it's going to go without me
listen to what I say in the live stream
there's very little dialogue in Friday's
uh August
23rd's live stream it's very very very
focused because behind the scenes I'm
trading so and I'm also tired so it
rallies one more time and makes these
relative equal highs comes back down it
does not accumulate inside that bid B
sell efficiency the fact that it doesn't
create multiple candles in the midpoint
of here means that it's going to go down
and then sharply run higher so I'm going
to expect what another Drive Above This
high and then another Drive Above This
High why because this did not accumulate
down here so it means this is just
running down real quick and they're
going to send it one more time as a
pump don't take my word for it go back
and look at Price action or if you've
been trading for a long time you'll see
a lot of this happening and it's going
to repeat it's a signature okay so the
market creates this Gap here after
running above here we want to see it
pass that over and become a inversion
Fair Val Gap we like the idea of the
buyid swept here so now the market
should be in a sell
model consolidation rally all of this is
manipulation break lower smart money
reversal
hello lowrisk sell see the fair value
Gap Caleb you can annotate that I'm
keeping it off the chart if you do this
on yours
and then we break below the old new day
opening Gap and go below this fair value
G and we want to see it act as an
inversion fair value G watch the live
stream I'm expecting this before it even
happens comes up we want to leave the
upper half open camer
it breaks Kens below here below
here below here and then what is it
working towards what I open the live
stream up with mentioning that I like
the new day opening gap for August 23rd
2024 which is Friday's uh price action I
like that it was inside of the old new
week opening gap on August 18th 2024
that being the high of it and the low of
it and it's sitting right here that's
beautiful when they when they nest like
that that is like a huge black hole it's
going to draw price into it it's so easy
to anticipate that that's where it's
going to draw to and what you want to
see is them pumping it right to open
all of this kind of stuff it's so easy
it's so
easy you can hear my voice I'm bored I'm
like I I'm not I'm not interest in going
along and I tell you that all of
this is not real we're going to be lower
later on and then there you go I gave
you this reaction here before it even
formed like a time traveler
right
so how much further if we didn't have
the new day opening gap down here or the
new week opening Gap you know what else
will we be looking for well let's ring
in the benefit of having that segment of
price action right up there what do you
think that
is that little pink shaded area is my
event horizon whenever you have a new
day opening Gap or new week opening
Gap above and below where you think
price is going to draw to between a new
new day opening Gap like we have
here and the that new day opening Gap
there if you take your fib and measure
that and you put quadrants on it the
upper quadrant the midpoint and the
lower quadrant that right there is my
event horizon notice how it's nesting
beautifully where you create the
relative equal highs and then one more
time it pumps it above it does the body
stay inside of the Event Horizon yes it
doesn't even go above the upper quadrant
so midpoint between New Day opening gaps
and new week opening gaps the algorithm
will repic too like a black hole it'll
draw price into it there generally won't
be very obvious things but obviously as
Inner Circle Trader I'm ICT so I'm going
to show you things that the average
Bearer ain't going to see I'm going to
show you what retail can't see okay and
I'm taking you
into where you're not seeing stuff in
the Candlestick it's outside the
spectrum of a Candlestick it's in price
action yes but you're not looking at it
in a way where the candlestick's going
to make very obvious oh here's pay
attention here so these are basically
dark pools okay or gray pools is what I
like to use a reference to uh there's
other gray pools there's other PD arrays
I have that are very similar to this not
all of them will I teach okay but I
might share one more during this
mentorship uh the no promises but Event
Horizon is something I share with my
private students and it is a midpoint
between
a new week opening Gap and a new day
opening Gap or a new week opening Gap
and a new week opening Gap either or it
could be one of the boundaries above or
below they don't need to be new week
opening Gap compared to a new week
opening Gap find a middle point it can
be either new day opening Gap or new
week opening Gap okay so there's no
preference there's no special
significance or strength added to it if
if it's new week opening Gap to new week
opening Gap that that's that's not what
we're doing here it's any one of them
but wherever they're in close proximity
to one another using the IP the data
ranges what is that it can't be older
than 60 days so you're look back with
your new new week opening gaps you can't
use one that's older than 60 days look
back why because that's three months
once you go past three months the
algorithm can use all of them but I'm
using that range of look back as a
maximum of 60 days so for those that
want to know how many days can I keep a
new week opening gap on if you want to
hold on to them longer than 5 weeks just
remind yourself that if it's older than
60 days I'm not generally looking at all
that you know with too much interest
okay especially if I'm going to be using
Event Horizon PD
so that is your event horizon look how
beautiful that
is and there's the inversion Fair Val
Gap and I outline that real time before
it even happens before it even becomes
an inversion fairb Gap I already had it
over here go watch the live stream I
know it's like magic isn't it so if we
watch how it Dives below the cell side
liquidity the question is is how far can
it go below that even if we didn't have
the new day opening Gap or the new week
opening Gap here which I gave to you at
the beginning of the live stream on
Friday August 23rd 2024 so we were
there this is regular trading hours so
Caleb you absolutely want to be toggling
this and capturing the price action and
annotating your chart showing this so we
have this gap between the High here or
not the high but the opening tick of
this down closed candle that's the first
tick or at 9:30 it starts trading and
where we stop trading regular trading
session hours at 4:15 p.m. Eastern
Standard Time that's what this is
indicating so this is your opening range
Gap and midpoint is consequent
encroachment I taught you in this
mentorship this year that 70% of the
time the midpoint or consequent cotent
of that Gap that forms between the
difference of previous 4:14 p.m. Eastern
Standard Time or regular trading hours
close and where we open at 9:30 the next
trading day that is the opening range if
if it opens higher that is a opening
range Gap that is a premium other words
we opened up in a premium if it opens
lower than where we settled the previous
day that is a discount opening range Gap
okay so it's a it's a lower gap opening
you want to measure that as soon as you
get the first tick highlight that and
then drop your quadrants on it but main
thing is you want to get that midpoint
because you're anticipating it so that's
what I was watching for I was airing on
the side of I want to see it drop down
below here because it would be that run
to consequent encouragement of the
opening range Gap but I'm not interested
in taking anything here unless it gets
to our premium levels up
here the market drops down here to that
point so this is the undelivered portion
of the opening range Gap so in other
words from the previous day settlement
price at 4:14 p.m. Eastern Standard Time
to the low of that candle right there
this is the portion that is undelivered
yet it is not completely closed in the
Gap yet so we want to have this
information and project it forward so
we're going to do that now and move the
chart over so this is what it looks like
getting more data and you can see we
drop down into it later on during the
lunch hour
so that undelivered portion gets
delivered here look at the bodies
respecting the new week opening gap of
August 18th 20124 a't that beautiful we
get this little erron price action here
but the bodies are telling you the
narrative it's telling you the storyline
behind it this is algorithmic the market
runs above after it does this this
candle goes above this
candles open so that's the change in the
state of delivery on that candle right
there we trade back down
rally smooth highs inefficiency trade
above it and starts moving back into a
premium level and buy side
here I want you to think about what I
taught you so far and I mentioned this
in Twitter spaces in
2023 so when I used to be on Twitter I'm
not on Twitter anymore I used to do
audio commentary and I would talk about
um things that I want to talk about top
you topical studies or just a rant on
Saturdays I used to call them uh
Saturday shotgun or shotgun Saturdays
rather and it was basically my way of
just uh encouraging people cheerleading
ranting and and also hiding uh levels
and things that are in my repertoire as
a Trader and how to internalize price
action with them and I dropped obviously
the new day opening Gap the new week
opening Gap first like that and I
mentioned um Event Horizon in passing
there and I talked about inversion fair
value gaps so while every fair value Gap
should not be looked upon as a potential
inversion Fair bag Gap because it's a
fair bag Gap now doesn't mean it's going
to be used as one but first presentation
is a school of thought that I've taught
and it's not in your books it's not in
all that kind of stuff it will be now
everybody's going to put in their Amazon
book They're racing to write a book
based on the 2024 uh mentorship uh
content so you'll be seeing people
having ICT mentorship 2024 you know
study notes or something to that effect
and you'll finally see the first
presentation Theory which is the fair
value Gap here that forms minimum 931 so
you can't use 930 candle when you know
factoring the imbalance candle the
imbalance candle cannot form before 9:31
so 9:31 why is that because if you
toggle electronic trading hours to
regular trading hours your 930 candle
won't be
there so it has to be framed
on the regular trading session that's
occurring right now so it has to agree
in in both electronic trading hours and
regular trading hours or it's not a real
fair value G so if it's going to be
first presentation the candle that
creates the imbalance is 931 very
earliest one it could be that not before
okay so that I mentioned this also in
the live stream so go back and listen to
it because it's mentioned I even show
you why it's that like that so this is
your real first fair value yet for the
folks that left comments in my YouTube
channel I'm talking about why didn't I
talk about this one or refer to that one
shouldn't that be the very first fair
value got go back and listen and I show
you why and I just Amplified it here on
Caleb's channel so this is your very
first fair value Gap it's first
presentation between 9:30 and 10 a.m.
filter is you cannot have it until 9:30
one so that is the earliest it can form
it but once you have one you take that
information and you can project it
forward so we can take that information
out here right away you can see during
the lunch hour we worked below it I was
working with Caleb side by side I told
him I said it's going to hit this and
sell short and it's going to attack that
low and fill in that undelivered portion
of the opening range cap and look at the
delivery there that my friends is
perfect so these are
of events that you want to have in your
journal and Caleb you want to be looking
for these types of things how has that
first presented fair value gap between
9:30 well technically 9:31 to 10 a.m.
eastern time how does it behave how does
it how is it used later on look how it's
respecting it here you think that's
random it goes up hits it drops back
down rolls through it overlaps it here
and then right there at noon going into
the lunch hours
it's going to sell off now obviously
when I say that people that you know
don't watch my live streams have never
seen me outline one minute candle sticks
and give you the entire Narrative of the
day where it's going to draw to create
the high of the day and the low of the
day that's what was being shown here and
that's where it was being drawn to and
you knew that at the beginning of the
live
stream these levels were here at the
beginning of the live stream and I said
I like this how it's like that's nested
down there so it's a real good
indication it's probably I'm going to
draw down into that and man did it here
then retrace all the way back up into
the new capap on August 21st 2024 then
sold off and then working in that first
presentation of fair value gap between
9:31 and 10 o'clock Eastern time New
York time always New York time sells off
consolidates bumps the relative equal
highs then sells off aggressively the
bodies tell you we're done start to pull
back we're in your lunch macro and start
to uh come back against the resting buy
orders that would have been Trail for
anyone that's
short so that right there is just a
perfect display of what price action did
on Friday where we thought it was going
to go it delivered perfectly over 200
plus handles of price run that was
outlined in advance that went against
all of the messiness during a pal speech
okay manual intervention is most likely
going to occur when a Fed chairman is
speaking and usually whatever they give
you initially it's wrong it's fake it is
not Jade it's a mess and you're going to
get hurt chasing after that okay so if
we carry that first fair value Gap
throughout the entirety of the day I
also taught you in a 2024 mentorship
that there is a final hour between four
I'm sorry between 3:00 and 4 o'clock
Eastern time New York local
time 3:15 to 3:45 that is a ma
okay and look what happens here the
market stops right right at the bottom
of the first presented fair value guy so
first presentation
9:31 on Friday August 23rd 2024 I gave
you the logic I told you what to look
for I mentioned this in a Twitter space
in
2023 and then I've taught you that it
was going to be visible to see this in
your chart while teaching the 2024
mentorship here and you want to car that
fair value got throughout the entirety
of the day until when
345 go back and listen to what I said
and look what it does here it's almost
like this thing this price action is
running on an AI like an algorithm but
that's far-fetched right so the market
goes down and creates the very low at
345 at the bottom of the very first fair
value Gap that I told you good old ICT
Caleb's Daddy I told you that that's
what is going to be useful carrying it
that far and it hits it perfectly right
then and there now tell me that's buying
and selling pressure is that what you're
telling me that's not what that is folks
that is absolutely coded logic based on
time and price when they both agree you
got magic where do it trade to right
back up to a previous new day opening
Gap and swipes
above the short-term High there for buy
side and then it just meanders around
and it close folks I want you to think
about what I'm showing you here take
copious notes each day when I'm doing a
live stream and where I'm prompting you
to do screenshots when if I'm doing it I
may forget to do it because I'm if I'm
doing like I did on Friday I was
actually trading behind the scenes and
you know engaging price action but when
I give you things to okay you want to
screenshot this you want to screenshot
that um you might want to write that
down TimeWise
just look at the
time New York local time and then go
back into your charts after or whenever
you can get to your own charts and then
annotate your charts based on that
reference point and then try to get it
in your own charts not mine if you use
mine all the time I promise you you
won't learn as well you want to be in
there marking your charts up yourself
fumble around with it because this is
what you're going to be doing when I'm
not doing live streaming right so
Caleb's going to be forced to do the
same stuff Caleb won't have my charts he
won't have my notes he won't have my
annotations he's going to be forced to
do these types of things so the only
thing you're really focusing on now is
what creates the high and low of the day
I showed you I can call that and outline
it beforehand and do it live when I
which is what I did on August 23rd 2024
on YouTube in the presence of about
177,000 people
and here we have the very specifics of
what you're doing how to screenshot it
and log it everything that you observe
here it may not be just the things I've
mentioned here it may be other things
other order blocks other fair value gaps
and and make reference to them don't be
afraid to annotate something that you
may think is significant now but later
on you'll Discover it wasn't that big of
a deal that's progress that's that's the
thing you're going to see in your
journaling your journaling will be much
more specific and you'll have far less
things that are not important and
they'll be the things that are most
Salient but how do you start doing this
initially and first first presentation
time of day showing where the the new
day opening gaps and new week opening
gaps opening range Gap first
presentation fair value Gap Caleb that's
that's your number one that's your go-to
and you want to keep doing this every
single day for the rest of your career
every single day and then you're going
to start learning from this this is
going to be your Baseline so hopefully
you found this one insightful and Caleb
now you have a baseline to work with so
I expect to start seeing these things on
a day-by-day basis and until I talk to
you next time be safe